for the past four years since 2020 if
you were on the market for a legitimate
Windows alternative to the MacBook Air
product you couldn't get one like that
product didn't even exist because ever
since Apple came out with their M1 chip
no one could match that thing in terms
of the overall package like something
that was really well built with really
good battery life and awesome
performance like it didn't exist until
today because we have something pretty
special so this is from Lenovo it's
their yoga slim 7x and inside this thing
is the new chip from Qualcomm the
Snapdragon X Elite and when you take
that chip and put it into a 14-in device
like this you get something pretty
special because you have awesome
performance and you get nice design
language really good build quality and
you also get what I think is one of the
best keyboards in this laptop space
arguably the best and you also get a
really nice 14 and 1 12 in OLED panel
that's very calibrated right out of the
box and because this isn't an Apple
product you dodge all of the Apple like
apps so you get upgradeable storage and
you have like the ports be able to
connect multiple monitors to it on the
base models let's get into this thing so
the chip is very fast it's a little
faster than the current stuff from Intel
and AMD and it sits between the
performance of Apple's M3 and M3 Pro now
because it's an arm chip apps that run
natively on arm are going to run the
best but apps that have to go through
emulation so if you take like an x86 app
like a pre-existing app that wasn't
optimized or tuned specifically for this
type of Chip they'll still run on it
except there's a bit of a penalty now
the thing is these new chips and the
current emulation tools are so good you
still get solid performance when you're
emulating x86 like for my testing we're
seeing a 10 to at worst a 15%
performance penalty which is still
really good and I think what that
ultimately means is that we don't need
to depend on developers to make apps run
specifically on arm like that'd be nice
and when they do it that's even better
but you can just take pre-existing apps
and run it with perfectly good
performance even apps like Adobe
Premiere which lean on both the CPU and
the GPU in the past if you tried to
emulate premiere on an older arm chip it
was a train wreck but now very viable uh
a quick note about gaming these are not
gaming laptops per se and there's not a
lot of native arm games out there but
despite that the hardware is strong
enough to handle some light titles at
playable frame rates it's not amazing
but casual gaming is very viable on this
device so the chip is great but I want
to go over some Hardware features that I
think make this particular device
interesting so first is the build
quality I think a lot of the Snapdragon
X Elite devices that I've seen have like
mediocre build quality uh and I think
it's kind of expected considering that
these price points are lower but this is
a $1,200 machine and it is super tanky
this is built really well like the top
panel is very very firm and then the
hinge has like no play on it I think I
think the yogas are often made well but
this is like particularly well done this
device is also very light comes in at
1.28 kilos which is like 40 G heavier
than what you see on the MacBook Air but
despite its very similar weight this has
a way bigger battery than what you see
in the MacBook Air this has a 70w hour
battery which is like I think like 30%
bigger than the MacBook Air and because
of the massive battery and the crazy
Energy Efficiency of the Snapdragon
xelite you get Monster battery life I
actually think this is the longest
battery life I've seen on a 14-in laptop
particularly if you're using it for
streaming and it's also very quiet in
all those tasks but to be able to get a
70w hour battery on a small chassis like
this like that's that's uncommon that's
a battery like that is typically for
larger chassis uh so it's something
pretty special but then you got to see
the screen so this device has a 14.5 in
OLED panel that looks awesome it's x-ray
calibrated it's fast it's responsive
it's very bright it Peaks at a th000
nits and I think this display is just
like infinitely better than the stuff
that you get on MacBook airs like it's
empirically a better screen across the
board I would argue that this is a
better screen than the screens you get
on the MacBook Pros if I'm being honest
here but uh the other thing that comes
with this kickass device is I think the
best keyboard so it's Lenovo they own
the ThinkPad IPS for the ThinkPad
keyboards and I think these are just the
best keyboards I'm super fast on these
things and I just like the layout and
there's no number pad which I'm a big
fan of uh decent speakers as well the
overall package is just so good now a
real quick note on Windows co-pilot plus
because the hardware that's in here the
chip that's in here has an npu that
gives this laptop access to an extra
layer of features in the newest version
of Windows and currently you do need one
of these Snapdragon X Elite chips to be
able to access these features so they
have a few that are interesting the
first one that caught my eye is the
co-creator in paint so this allows you
to crudely Draw Something in the paint
program and then it use text prompts to
augment that image now I've only played
around it for a little bit but it is
strangely fun and it's easier to use
than I thought it would be and because
you can draw that initial sketch you can
kind of give some guidance as to what it
is that you're trying to draw or
generate and because it's built right
into windows it's like very easy to
access uh the other thing that was
interesting was live captions so you can
use it for real time language
translation for videos like if you're
watching a YouTube video or a movie and
you you can also use it for calls like
you could take a call for work and it'll
translate that audio in real time which
is pretty cool uh the third thing I
thought was neat were the studio effect
where you can apply visual effects to
your camera feed and they have your
standard stuff like background blurs but
they also have like the eye tracking
stuff so you can kind of look away from
the camera lens and it'll kind of
reposition your eyeball so it could it
looks like you're looking at the camera
it's a little trippy but they also have
some neat like cartoon effects that I
thought looked pretty cool but all of
this stuff is seemingly done with the
npu it doesn't pull resources from the
CPU or GPU and I think that's the idea
here that you're able to do all of these
things without it taxing like the main
processing capabilities of your chip uh
but the most interesting feature of the
co-pilot plus stuff was Windows Recall
now this was something that I wish I
could demo here but they pulled that
feature for now while they work on it
but the idea behind recall is that you'd
be able to find anything from your
digital life because recall would
constantly be taking snapshots of your
screen and then it would build this
timeline so if you ever need to find
anything or refer to something from the
past it' be able to go through that
timeline and just find it now the idea
of that is neat I guess like I mean it's
powerful right if you want access to
something like that it's neat but the
security and privacy concerns around
that whole mechanic is is wild so uh
that obviously needs to be retooled and
rethought but all the other stuff on
co-pilot plus seemed pretty neat just
from the short bit of time that I've had
with it but there you have it this is
the yoga slim 7x there's very few
devices on the market that can pull off
what this thing does especially at its
price point okay hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs if you liked it subs
if you loved it